701, actually. I will call the November 9th, 2015 School Board meeting to order. Would you please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance?
Anita is excused? Yes. Is that correct? Yes. I'm here. And Lisa Collins? Here.
Hey, so with six of the seven school board members present, I would declare a forum, um, board norms reflection. This may be the last time we do that and have that on our agenda as we are, um, under,
Um, moving on to approval of the agenda. I would note that the agenda has been posted, distributed and sent to the local media. With this in mind, are there any changes to the agenda at this time?
Okay, seeing none. All those in favor of approving the agenda as published, please signify by saying aye.
I oppose nay. Motion carries. Public participation.
Is there anyone who wishes to address the board relative to any item at this time?
We ask that a five minute time period per person be followed. Please come forward, state your name, address and topic to be addressed. I don't see anyone.
Alright, tonight we have a few of those. Um, first, Mr. Frawley donated a telescope, um, in pristine condition, um, and numerous accessories.
So, for our high school technology education program.
And then at Viking Elementary, we had quite a few staff members recently get grants. So, you know, in helping out with, um, funding different
Um, received a Tools for Schools grant of $500, um, from WXLW TV.
And then five other teachers, um, received a hundred dollars, the Mimic Foundation, um, Book Fair grants to spend on scholastic books. Um, it was Katie Shepard in grade one, Anne Burkhalter, seed, uh, special ed, Katie Curtis in grade three, Deanna Verden at risk, and Kathy Burge. And then, um,
Angela Frankie at grade one received a UWL cooperating teacher mini grant of $200 to purchase guided reading books, um, for her classroom.
go above and beyond to do the, to make a difference for these students. And then, um,
Coming up November 16th through the 20th is our American Education Week.
by the National Education Association and American Legion. It's, this week is designated.
Um, to represent and presents all Americans with a wonderful opportunity to celebrate public education and honor individuals who are making a difference in ensuring that every child receives a quality education.
So in the school district of Holman, we use this opportunity to celebrate not only our employees and all of our staff and all the wonderful things they're doing, but also for those who contribute to the ongoing.
success in with our students in the community. So, you know, they have specific days. One day is, you know, celebrating parents and others, volunteers and community members and staff and so on. So we'll be.
There's lots of just special different events that have been planned within buildings to celebrate this. And we might have a little surprise ourselves. So. So thank you.
Tonight, especially, we have some people outside of the classroom or outside of the district, some people who, um, like, um,
Dr. Tronstead, who is a part of the district who continues to give and.
Um, our staff who go above and beyond, um, and then it all kind of comes together in recognition of the excellence of all of our staff of the district.
And your leadership, so thank you for all that you do for our students and thank you to all the staff, um, and stakeholders in the district for all that they do, um, in and out of the classroom, I would say.
Thank you very much. Then moody, moving on to, um, reports and discussion. I think that Hobbs is up first for bus and van purchase.
Yeah, I just appreciate the whole bid process and going through that and I know that your brain wraps itself around what's best for our kids in the district and even for you to say something like, um.
We need a bus that can take wheelchairs, but have regular ed kids too. And I feel, I find that.
Incredible and so important because they're leaders for different reasons. So thank you for all that work.
Oh, okay, I thought it was, um, I was just curious, he said it was, the one that's retiring is from 1992?
Probably not, but does technology change or has it gotten any better with motorbuses?
I know I watch our neighbor is in a wheelchair and so I watch, um, every day and the care and, you know, that student has an aide with them. So, um, yeah, it's always remarkable to see and it is a regular ed, I think regular ed students also.
Nice service. I mean, it's definitely because I, my son's one of his best friends had one, he's right by our house and the lift would come down and it was, he was, she was always glad to get on. So it was colorful.
I'm Tim Bakberg. I'm, I wear a number of different hats within the district now. Uh, one of those I have the privilege of wearing the hat for is Youth Options.
Um, so tonight, uh, here to do a, a number of items. Uh, one, uh, seeking approval for our youth option candidates for this school year. But, um,
If you have questions about what Youth Options is, or how the whole process works.
Um, I've been fortunate enough to get a crash course introduction myself.
So, I, I have a handout for you, more just for, for your own viewing. Uh, we're not gonna go through that whole thing. Um, look at it as you may. Uh, some of it is district policy.
On the first page, it's policy from the post-secondary institutions that we work with for youth options, what they're looking for from our students. So, the youth options process.
First of all, what it is, it allows our Holman High School students the opportunity to participate at various post-secondary institutions. By law, that would be any state school.
in many, many of the private schools as well. For Holman High School students, that really comes down to three schools.
within our close proximity, UWL, Returbo, and Western Technical College. Students qualify for the program.
And once they qualify for the program, they receive both.
college credit, so they'll have a, a college transcript with college credit grades on there, the GPA. And we also give them post, or we give them high school credit as well. And it's a .25 to a one ratio. So if they do three credits at, at Western, that would be .75 credit at Holman High School. Uh, does not affect their GPA. Um, it comes in as an elective credit.
So, it, it kind of balances out those students that are advancing on taking rigorous courses, but still allows them the opportunity to do that. The, the main,
thing, uh, that students struggle with, and parents as well, and, and we try to get the word out, is that that application deadline, this again is, is set by state law, is March 1st for fall.
semester and October 1st for spring semester. Um, so by March 1st and October 1st.
I assemble a big list of students, um, and they complete the start of a, a long process, it seems like, for students, um, to get the approval. Uh, and the way that process works very quickly, um, school counselors like myself and the other three at the high school will meet one on one with those students.
Sometimes that's during a junior parent meeting. Sometimes it's during the school year around registration time. And we see if it's a good fit for them.
We want to make sure students are well aware of what this all entails. They are getting college credit. It's the start of their college career. Um, and it has to fit into their career plan. So we ask, what's your career? Uh, and does that fit?
They have to have extinguished all high school coursework in the area. Um, we have a lot of nursing assistant students that you'll see in the next slide. Um, we don't have that course offered here currently at the high school. So obviously that is one that we would like to offer our students at some of the other institutions.
Um, and, and of course they have to meet college, university requirements and prereqs. Um, so on that front page, you can see juniors and seniors only. Um, it's not, it's not offered to sophomores or freshmen and they have to be, um, stellar students, um, by far in order to even.
for, for your approval. And then from there, I will meet back with the students. We'll finish up the application process.
Uh, certain programs require lots of paperwork. Uh, healthcare, for example. Uh, there's about another three or four forms that they need to fill out, background checks and things like that. Um, I mail that all off to the schools.
Um, and then from there, it's really hands off from our standpoint. Um, and they are now a college student and the admissions office will connect with them through, uh,
email, through snail mail, as I call it, and they'll start working with them. They'll register those students and they are college students. So it's kind of the process.
to apply for. There's a lot of ifs in this process. Um, they fall into the registration process at the bottom.
Which means all other students with more credits will get to sign up for those classes first. They kind of get what's left. Um, and then, of course, it has to fit into their high school schedule as well. So when you look at 87 credits from Western for spring, um,
Most likely, it's not going to be 87 credits, uh, that those students are going to be taking. I did look at last year and I think it was about an 80% success rate from what they applied for and what they actually took, which is good. Um, if you look at courses, it runs the gamut.
But I wanted to point out the nursing assistant to me. I found that interesting. I don't know what that means exactly, but we're looking at.
Yes. Is there a limit to how many students we could fund for this? Is there a cap on that? First dollar amount or?
No, not that I'm aware of. It's, it's state mandated that students can take the youth options and if they meet the criteria, um, they can take it. Yes.
You have any history on the success after they're in college? Do you talk to them after they've been in college and how it's helped them or where you can improve upon your service?
Well, since I am brand new, um, not yet, um, but that would be definitely, I mean, something that I want to look at to make sure, and I'm trying to streamline the process.
Um, as I'm going through, uh, redid the paperwork, uh, trying to get that communication out to parents a little more efficiently, um, so that they can be more successful and more students can become aware of those opportunities for them.
Yeah, I think that's really important on any program we do in these schools is to have surveys and how well they work and get feedback. And because we need to have a constant, a continuous learning curve of improvement. So. Good. Thanks. Thanks.
kind of bullet fits into the student's career plan. So are these kids that at
17 or 18, they've already decided what they're going to be and they have chosen a career. And is that the only ones this is open to?
Or if you're not sure what you want your career to be, which we know many high school students don't know yet, do they have opportunities?
Great question. I just came from the junior parent meeting and that was one of our questions to the juniors, next year seniors. How many are
know what they want to do once they graduate. And I, I think in a crowd of
300, we had a half dozen hands. Um, so we're, I mean, we're being realistic here. When we talk about career plans, we're looking very broad. Are you looking at attending a two year school, attending a four year college? And if you are, we look at the very basic.
Jan ads that they need, or liberal arts credits that they need, or in the case of nursing assistant, it may be a course that's very program specific.
No, I, that would be not quite right. So students can definitely provide their own transportation, but it's.
Yeah, and, and on a side note to that, I mean, students that, um, have free and reduced lunch, um, or have a struggle providing the transportation, uh, the state does provide, uh, reimbursement for transportation, which they can fill out the paperwork and, um, help them get to and from school. So.
You know, there were some concerns, I think, at first. Obviously, the cost, but what we do, um, because this, Holman pays the tuition. The school district pays the tuition. So,
I think as we look at some programs, some coursework, some classes, it is more.
Feasible for us to have them do youth options, then for us to be providing that course here for one or two students to bring an instructor in and that kind of thing. So we continue to look at that as a, um, a possibility and, you know, the nurse, um, CNAs.
There are other options out there. I don't know if we've ever investigated that on what might be a less expensive way to provide that for our students, but I would bet the vast majority of them take that for work. Working in a nursing home, they have to have that.
Yep, and it's, it's the first step, uh, for any nursing program. It's a, it's a requirement to enter into a nursing program is to have that CNA taken care of, so.
And, you know, isn't it amazing that, that one student at UWL with 10 credits, I mean, if they'd started even as a junior to do that, to go into college with the high cost of college of,
And some of those students there are gifted and talented. They've accelerated through their senior year. They have that opportunity to take some higher level, more rigorous coursework. So.
I think it's always about outside of the box. So us providing education for them doesn't necessarily mean it has to happen in that building. They can happen outside and what's in the best interest of those students.
the information today that students must, is it, I don't know if prove is the right word, that there isn't anything in district.
Oftentimes, maybe in the sciences and those types of things, we have maximized our.
what we can offer. And so calculus too, they might take that at the university and it just, we just don't have the student body to, to offer that here.
It was some course. Do you have a list of the courses again? Can you go back?
Because I learned a new vocabulary word today. I had to look up.
On September 14th, we shared with you the audit and the management letter from the auditor for the 14-15 audit.
They looked at the middle school. Um, remember the audit always does a sampling and so the middle school was selected for this process this year. And, um, they've identified, according to their observation, not all customers received a cash receipt copy.
There's some concern about, um, students paying fees to teachers and the record keeping, um, before it gets to the office for deposit. And then also, um,
So I have met with, um, Joni and Ryan at the middle school and we went through their procedures just so that I could also learn it since I'm still kind of new here.
It's just wasn't provided with the deposit to the office. So when the auditor was looking at those receipts, they didn't have the supporting documentation. So that's one of the resolutions to that concern is to have all of those deposits turned in with the list.
Um, we've also identified that, um, the list needs to include the student's name and the type of payment, check or cash, and the amount so that it can easily be reconciled for refunding of students or parents.
And again, since this is a sampling in the middle school, we will be extending the new procedures out to all sites just to make sure that we're compliant and can pass that audit observation next year, um, for different sites that may be selected for that review.
we receive our levy receipts from the municipalities in full according to what we levy and then if they are not able to collect from taxpayers we get a
and we have to reimburse the municipal, municipality. The auditor wants to see us tracking that, so if those delinquent taxpayers ever do pay the municipality and we get our,
Our money, we, um, can cross it off the list or, or check it off because we know that we've received that, um, later in the future.
So we've developed a process to start tracking, um, those delinquent payments so that we can keep track and reconcile.
And lastly, um, old outstanding items, um, in the past.
So, the business office has developed a process to
Um, and giving them an opportunity if we can contact them at their last known address to request a reissued check.
People, I think it's 120 days notice. So basically at the very end of the fiscal year.
we have to send a notice that there isn't an outstanding check and give them
Um, several months to reply before we turn it over to unclaimed property. So to meet those guidelines, we need to implement, implement that beginning in 2016. But again, we're working on resolving those. So we have less letters to send out next summer. Any questions?
consent agenda items. We have a number of items tonight to be considered. Are there any that you would like to have pulled out separately? Have them considered separately?
the employee handbook language revisions and then 10.8B, uh, first reading of the acceptable use policy.
Okay, so then I would entertain a motion to approve the consent agenda items with the exception of 10.6A and 10.8B. I so move. Is there a second?
Yeah. On the personnel report, I just wanted to congratulate, um, Sandy Fisher is, um, retiring and she's been with our district for 31 years. Um, she's a head custodian at Evergreen and, um, what I've learned also is, um, quite a few of her.
family has helped us out also in the district and does that. So we just want to thank her for all of her efforts and time and dedication to our district. So thanks.
Okay, thank you. So a motion has been made and seconded to approve the consent agenda items with the exception of
item 10.6a and 10.8b. All those in favor, please signify by saying aye. Aye.
employee handbook language related to CPR first aid AED. Um, I guess the first step of.
And then discussion. Any discussion on this, Tim?
You know, from the last meeting, I think there were some concerns that this appeared to be more of a cost savings benefit, and that to me is probably not a good reason to limit the number of people with this training, and then now with
Um, you know, more, and it seems like we're going the opposite way and having less.
You know, when we were looking at this employee handbook language, there's kind of, I guess maybe two parts to it. One is we wanted to make sure we always had someone that had the training.
that, so we always looked at kind of location. So we always have people available.
And then we wanted to make sure we had our crisis response teams in the schools in place and so on. But then we also talked about outside of the school setting. We want to make sure we have
crisis of some sort and you had more than one person eating CPR, you'd need multiple people on the scene to do that piece.
Um, and another part of the conversation we had is a lot of times, um,
You know, if you're in a rural school district and you don't, the response time for your EMT is lengthy.
Versus in Holman, our response time is pretty quick. Um, if we needed that response also is kind of some of the discussion that we had with that part of the policy. Or with the handbook language, I should say. I understand.
I understand now all teachers are required currently to have that under the current.
Under the current language, all staff are required. Okay.
I'm not sure, and I'm just, and I don't want to do all the talking here, and I, I, I'm just thinking out loud if.
I'm trying to decide and I'm just speaking out loud and I probably shouldn't do that if I want to make an amendment at all staff or if I.
would just vote no to have it go back to the employee group because I really respect the work that they do and I don't want to take away from that. But I think I might just say that I'd like to amend the motion to have it refer again to all staff.
Like a double jeopardy. Because if you do that, if you don't want the teachers to, uh, all the teachers to be certified, you'd vote no. And then this, this would be defeated, so you can't have a double.
So anybody else, I'm going to vote against this. Um, it came through my committee and came up through the ranks, but I, you know, when we.
studied it and I watched, I was unable to be here last meeting, but when I watched the discussion and I think people brought some really good points up for discussion.
But I, what I heard was more probably a little bit uncomfortable is part of it was cost savings. Part of it was a different way of looking. And the one re, one thing I could support it for is the establishment of those.
crisis response teams because of that and that came up as part of the discussion.
But one of the things I heard was that, well, it was a policy that was on the books that just wasn't being enforced. And that kind of troubled me a little bit to hear that. I just want to.
So, I, you know, there's a lot of reasons to do this. I think the legislature is talking about having our.
When, when legislation comes down one way or the other, we'll have to change our policy, right? No. No.
No, if they require students to be, if they require middle school students to be, to receive that, it doesn't, still doesn't say all of our staff has to have that training, but they're saying that students should be trained in CPR and first aid.
We are more strict, more stringent than other districts, but there are other districts in the area that require all staff to have this training.
It's very difficult to enforce because you hire someone, they have the training when they come in, but then to track 300, well, it's 300.
certified or not and I sat in negotiations where that employee group so as we hear about the employee groups
They did not want their employee group to have to have that training. So I know there's a little discomfort. It is uncomfortable for some people to.
have to respond in this, you know, in that kind of manner. And so they felt that it was a waste for the district to train them.
And, and I think part of it too is just with all the other mandates that have come down from the state level, just time.
Like, when do we find time to train 600 employees on?
CPR when we have to train them on a new assessment and we have to train them on educator effectiveness and.
And we only have so much professional development built within our calendar. So then we're asking them, okay, on your own time now, we want you to come in to have training on this. Everybody.
So I think part of the reasoning behind it is.
Okay, how can we still be as effective, but be efficient in the process to make sure our service is still there for our students and staff, but yet.
They asked, so the feedback staff, the majority of staff were saying that they felt.
I think it's part of the educator group and being an educator.
They, you know, you have so many responsibilities and requirements. And, um, this is important definitely because it can save a life. But.
If we can have coverage of that and accomplish that without having another requirement based upon that, I think is where the conversation came about with our crisis team in place now and with saying these are the individuals that need to still have the training so that we're covering all of our grounds and locations was kind of the reasoning behind that.
Because, you know, tracking six, over 600 employees, making sure they have their CPR training every, was it three years?
I mean, it's, you know, it's time wise, it can be very logistically, you know, a nightmare, but we never.
We never want to, um, put the safety of our children or staff against, you know, Oh, it costs extra money. No, we want to still make sure we're providing that service, but can we go about it?
In a different manner and still provide that service is kind of.
And that was one of the things that had wasn't part of the original. And we talked about it and said, yes, that the school district wouldn't necessarily pay for their time to get that training, but it would pay for their certification. So that.
get it, and you still are interested in keeping up your certification, um, you will, you know, you will be reimbursed for that, so.
Fairly represented, but I think when they're looking at their crisis response team, they're talking about those kind of things. So I would suspect that they would make sure that each wing or each area would be represented by someone who could quickly come.
Since you've been principal, how many times in high school can you think of where it was required to administer CPR?
And I know someone in this building received CPR. Rick Johnson and.
What's the point of trying to make it if you ask that question? If you have, if you have someone in the, within 30 feet of every student in the school.
And you have, you have one incident every five years. I mean, seriously, you have to have every teacher in the district trained.
To go down and require CPR, there's no one available in the area.
Well, we could get it a discussion. It's really the timeliness of that response and the immediacy of that response. So, um, but as I said to Kate's, I think it's reasonable. I think the plan is reasonable. It's just. And. But I've still been.
Any other discussion on that? Otherwise, there's a motion has been made and seconded to approve item 10.6a, um, change in the employee handbook language. All those in favor, please signify by saying aye.
And the motion passes. So, um, next item is item 10.8B, acceptable use policy. I would entertain a motion to approve item 10.8B. I would so approve. Is there a second?
Probably say there are different ways to go about this that I asked for this to be held out is every time another policy and even the other ones that came before us tonight would always clearly identify what items were changing either through a strikeout or a highlighting or some type of information, whereas this policy
that before us is different than all of those and it doesn't clearly identify those areas that are changing. So as we go through it, I don't think it's very clear. So I'm not necessarily saying that I'm opposed to this policy.
I'm just would like maybe the opportunity to have it brought back in two weeks when we had an opportunity to maybe have it more in line with the other policy changes that come to us. That's clearly identifying what has changed, what has been struck and out what's been added because all the other policies tend to do that as well. Now,
Maybe I've missed something. Maybe nothing's been changed on this. I doubt that that is the case. Um, but it just, it, it appeared to be a little bit different. So I want to be very clear that I'm not opposed to it. I just asked for it to be because it was different than everything else we normally see.
You want all the policies that come before the board to go through each one of them and show
Well, they all do. The other ones all do that. Usually they have the strikeouts or the highlights. They, they almost always do. And the other ones that are before us tonight either have new words bolded in yellow or what was taken stricken out. And they, they usually come before us that way. And the others that do tonight, too.
So what happened? This policy has been going through so many revisions and strikethroughs for quite a few months that there were so many that we actually had received.
Both the one with the strikethrough and they had a clean copy just so people could read it. So this is probably, um, I'll take the responsibility for the error.
Um, as to why you aren't seeing the one with the strikethrough. So we have that and we can definitely get that into the drop box for you to review. So I apologize for that.
So, what, what we're doing is, um, we have taken this draft and put it, um, we're sharing this draft, um, as we're moving along as a draft, um, and sharing with parents that, um,
This is something that we've been working on so that it does, because we did need to make changes and quite a few to match the changing days with technology and so forth. And so we're sharing this, but then having the conversation with parents as to when this,
Does get finally finalized. They will get a fresh.
Because of the one-on-one rollout, is there a time-sensitive nature to the board taking action tonight on this that would cause issues at the middle school?
And I am comfortable with that. Like I said, it wasn't that I was opposed to the policy. It just was, it was structured so differently than the rest. I just, I kinda wanted to talk it through.
So, a motion has been made in the, um, seconded to accept item 10.8B in the.
consent agenda. All those in favor, please signify by saying aye.
Real just quick this evening. Buildings and Grounds Committee met earlier this evening. Just had a kind of a brief continued discussion on prioritization of unmet items that are going on. It seems to kind of take the.
The bulk of the time, and it seems like those unmet things always do, but good discussion and looking at maybe changing some of the rubrics as well to help with some of those decisions. So it was a good meeting we had earlier.
It's quite a few yet. I think the winter sports are already starting.
I didn't even pick up what he picked up on as far as, uh, some of the strikeouts and that sort of thing. I've been, I asked before about any kind of, uh,
A survey the school has done with students leaving, and I was curious if we could somehow get some of that information sometime as far as what, how we do as a, as a school district.
If we had feedback from the graduating seniors and their parents and how, you know, how our product matches up, you know, where can we improve upon? That's a far reaching goal we should always be striving for. And I know I also asked about,
a study that Dale had presented about starting, um, early start times and the, and the detrimental effects on the, I've always been kind of a big proponent on that. I understand we can't get up the crack of noon, and I don't expect that, but I, there's,
But I also understand this is a slow moving ship and it's not easy to just change everything and I don't expect that.
And I underline that with the fact that, um, when you have the state dictating policy to us, that, um, if we only had 38 hours in a day, it wouldn't be a problem half the time. So, that's kind of a rambling thought, so I want to kind of give credence to, to what we do here, because we, every teacher I've ever met is always very dedicated, but,
We should be malleable and we should be changing our policies, I think, to be as student-centric as possible. And I honestly don't know 100% of the time if we are.
Any thoughts on that? Can we do a survey? Is, is that the student learning committee? Is that something we can throw together and get some questions out there and present it to the, to the populace?
Other item, the early start time item. I think, did you see the information in this week's packet, the weekly summary? I know that.
Dr. Mueller suggested and, and in the email for me, yeah, in her weekly comments that maybe this is something it just kind of rises to the top. And I've said this.
As a board, we see articles, we like to bring these things to the attention of, you know, the administration.
Everybody kinda has their thing, you know. Tim is year-round school and.
look at them and say, where does this fall within our strategic initiatives? The work that we did to identify those strategic initiatives.
And Tom is absolutely right. You know, we need to be student centered. Students are why we're here. Student learning is why we're here. However, we.
That, I would say, Tom, and go back and read that information and we'll talk about it again, is probably the one thing that we did not follow the research on after multiple, multiple, multiple meetings related to
start times and the cost. I, I thought about asking Jade and Beth.
She may have left, which is probably good to identify what the cost would be for us to change our start times. And we, you know, I don't know that we could do it without having one bus route, one time period because it,
that is a big issue to address and we have to, the safety and security of our students and having latchkey students and that kind of thing was a huge issue that was raised by parents at the time that we did that study. So, but take a look at that. I will.
That's okay. Just take a look at that material. So then, Jeff, do you, what, any comments this evening?
I'm thinking something, but I, um, there's all kinds of generic questions you can ask, but go ahead.
And then, you know, the other thing, once we find out what kind of details you're looking for, we do do a post-graduation intentions.
Um, that's required by the state as to what are your intentions like? Is it for a year? Is it military? Is it a two year and every student?
It's trying to determine what data will be most useful for us as we move forward in determining and planning what we want to focus on, um, in, in builds for the students as to what their needs are. So.
So that was a question that was on the survey that Bob talked about that after, I think it was taken a year after they graduated or into their, into their first year. But Jeff is right. There is a survey that's taken not only by students, but by parents and staff and, and.
And, uh, stakeholders. So that also, and we've received copies of that information on that. I think it's a, uh, is it an environmental or something we call it surveys? Anything else, Jeff?
But, yep, it's just something. And then, uh, Mr. Holman did pretty good this year, and it's always fun to watch, but I was stuck home writing an essay, so I couldn't watch it.
Can you explain to the public what Mr. Holman does for the school district? Like, why is there a Mr. Holman? Cause it's kinda cool.
Mr. Holman gives an opportunity for students to raise money for a charity of their choice, and it's males, preferably because it's Mr. Holman, but what they do is they, um,
Thanks to not just teachers, but support staff and our administration, uh, transportation. I always, I'm going to leave somebody out, secretaries. Um.
lunch people help me here. Who am I forgetting about? Just all of the staff.
information and the right words and there's a special way to do it. So thank you to people who have done that.
Um, also, Chris, just, um, an aside.
And, and just briefly, I'll mention things for the public. There's a lot of legislation going on out there.
Some has been passed, some hasn't, but I appreciate you sharing that with us. Um, WASB does a really good.
job of that on their site, but I think you make it more concise. And so it's a very cool thing.
From things like mandatory to mandate the CPR training. Uh, there's a trans, transgender bill.
Being looked at now that will impact us. School start date will impact us. Um, reporting crime.
is to urge the public to keep an eye on what happens with
Restrictions that we have not had in the past before that include the veranda referendum fails. We couldn't bring it up again for 2 years. That's pretty big. There are some other monetary.
And that will really impact this district. And so I do appreciate you.
Shooting that stuff out. Like I said, I like to read it, but I like your concise summary of that. Um, that's it.
Okay, thank you, Lisa. I think the only thing I would just say that we had the compensation model meeting, um, and that is moving along. We had some good conversation about that.
I know that there is an upcoming, um, seminar related to that that we're going to try to have a group, um.
with Dr. Buehler and myself and a representative from the HTA that are going to be attending that. And it was interesting because as we had that discussion, we were talking about.
You know, the model that we're looking at is primarily for our educators. Um, but we also should be broader and think about the.
getting raises and those kinds of things. And so it was a good conversation that we had the other night.
Personnel and Governance is this week. Um, so we will be.
And then the education convention is January 20th to 22nd in Milwaukee. Sure.
The candidates that are up for election, I should look at my.
are up for election, reelection, uh, so that process usually begins December, I think, with the,
And then base, uh, board policies and rules for review. Currently, the SALT has high school graduation. Um, anything major changed on that or is it just a routine review of policy? Yep.
No major changes. Oh, sorry. With the high school graduation requirements going to be the civics test requirement. That's right. Yeah. Yes.
So anything statutorily, we may have to review and accept and approve, so. Um, then board meeting reflection. Good meeting this evening. Thank you all for your attention. And I would entertain a motion to adjourn. That's a move. Is there a second?