Welcome to everyone for joining us today for the first in our Executive Function Experts webinar series.
And, uh, let's take a look at what we're going to accomplish today. So today is really all about framing, um, some big questions and answers around executive function. Um, talking about, you know, what it means, especially in this context of today where we're dealing with remote learning, right? That's something that was not, you know, when we planned this webinar series, we were
The issue of remote and distance learning makes executive function more important than ever before. So we'll define executive function in a very concrete and practical hands on way, and we'll build those connections into the world of remote learning that we're all dealing with.
Um, so just to make this point, and I think I said it once or twice, but this is just the first of.
between executive function school to home. And even though now a lot of kids school is home, there's still some danger that miscommunication or difference in expectation between the two can create a lot of EF issues. So join us on the 15th as we discuss how to work together for teachers and parents.
We'll also be doing our executive function and reading with our director of reading on the 29th and executive function and math with our director of educational services on May 14th. So really looking forward to this whole series. I can't wait to see all of you there.
So, Elizabeth and I are coming from this organization, the Research Institute for Learning and Development. This is an educational nonprofit in Lexington, Massachusetts. And executive function is really at the heart of everything we do. Our mission is to empower all students, students with learning differences, students without, to own their executive function strategies.
To become empowered in strategic learners, you can set their own goals and accomplish them.
And we accomplished that in a number of ways. We have SMARTS, which we'll talk about in a second. We also do a lot of conferences, trainings, and workshops. We had our, um, our flagship conference is the Learning Differences Conference in its 35th year. It was rescheduled till this October. So it was, you know, you haven't missed it. If you'd like to join us in October at Harvard, um, you can check out our website for more.
And also stay tuned. We'll be having more online workshops and webinars. We do partnerships with school districts, on-site trainings, et cetera. So check that out for more and some more resources on executive function. And I also do want to mention our sister organization, which is ILD, the Institute for Learning and Development. That is a learning center that does educational services,
We do one-on-one academic coaching. We do a neuropsych evaluation and executive function groups. And in this time of remote and distance learning, we're developing a lot of virtual resources to do one-on-one coaching and potentially some group coaching for kids to handle the EF challenges of today. And we have a, on the webinar evaluation forum. If you're interested in learning more, please click that link as well.
And we can't go any further without mentioning our fearless leader, Dr. Lynn Meltzer. So she is our EF guru. She is the president and founder of both of our institutes. And she's been doing this executive function work for quite a long time. Um, initially through the Children's Hospital here in Boston.
Through being a professor at Tufts, associate at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and through her institutes. Her research has always focused on how do we break down the process of learning in a way that really empowers students and doesn't just focus on challenges in a way that teaches self understanding and promotes resilience and flexibility. So everything that we're going to do today is based on her work.
Um, she's done a number of fantastic books on executive function. So if you are doing some social distancing and have some time on your hands, I definitely recommend doing some reading. I love that green book for an executive function in the classroom. That is my executive function Bible. I have a few in the office.
So, I, that's my personal recommendation. But of course, they're all great.
Um, and then finally smarts. I did mention this, but let me just give it, give you the official overview of that. And we'll dive into stuff today.
So SMARTS is an executive function strategy instruction curriculum. It was originally developed at ILD as a way to, it was a peer mentoring program where older students worked with younger students to learn executive function strategies that they could apply to things that they had going on in school and in life. Um, since then we've developed a executive function strategy instruction curriculum for middle school, high school, as well as elementary.
We, um, we work with schools and educational organizations to bring these strategies into diverse learning settings, whether, you know, public private charter.
So housekeeping done. Let's get into this very important question that brings us all here today. Now you notice that we're really thinking about, you know, what is executive function? Um, what is the definition of it? But I want to go past that, and I want to think about, you know, what does it look like?
Because if you Google executive function and hey, you know, go for it. Um, you'll see that there are a lot of great resources being done by neuroscientist researchers with fMRI studies and they have these beautiful, colorful pictures of the brain, um, that looks so interesting. But as students or as students or teachers or parents, we don't really have access to fMRIs in our house. You know, we don't have one in our bedroom.
So, instead, we need to think about what are the concrete behaviors that we are seeing
So before we give you the official definition of executive function, I'm going to ask you to vote on what executive function means. So, Elizabeth, if you could put that link in the chat, and this is also going to be a great test for us to see if we are able to, you know,
handle the going to a survey and going back to zoom. So Elizabeth is going to post a survey into the chat. You're going to click on that.
So click the link and let me show you what you're going to see. That could be good. So new share.
This is a test for us as well. So everyone's, everyone's testing their executive function know how today. Isn't that?
So when you click the link, it's going to take you to a Google forum, which is going to take you to your, whatever your web browser is.
So once you fill out that form, you're going to have to click back on zoom to come back to this webinar. So let me know if anybody has any issues.
To fill that in and then we'll take a look at the responses and see what that's telling us. Oh, nice. Great, great, great. Okay.
Elizabeth, are you guys seeing my screen? Are you seeing the responses come in?
Alright, awesome. So we can see as the responses are coming in.
But there are some things that, like, everyone's like, yeah, that's executive function. Look at organizing your closet. 97.6%. Calculating math in your head.
That one's getting a lot. No one, most people are saying, I'm not really sure that that's executive function or not.
So what I'm seeing from your answers is that things that require us to create systems or to remember where things are.
Alright, good. We all did it. Good job, everyone. Nice. Nice work on that technology.
Everyone pretty much agrees that executive function is an umbrella term for these different cognitive processes that you use to accomplish goals, whether they're learning or otherwise.
definition, right? Some people say that executive function is unitary. There's one executive function and it's inhibition, right? I want that marshmallow, but I'm not going to eat it right now. I'm going to wait and figure out the other things I have to do first.
Tom Brown and Russell Barkley, two famous ADHD researchers, have really awesome breakdowns that you might want to explore.
Um, George McCloskey, who's one of the authors of The Brief, which is a widely used executive function survey used by psychologists and schools. Um, he says there are 39 executive functions. And while he is a really fascinating speaker and I really appreciate hearing him speak.
As a teacher, I do not have time for 39 executive functions, right?
I barely have time to make sure that everyone is on the same page at the same time. So I'm going to propose this Dr. Meltzer's breakdown here as
between perspectives or approaches. So that could be shifting between the main idea of something and interesting details and irrelevant details. It could be shifting between the way you behave when you're outside playing with your friends versus the way you behave in school.
Particularly now is a huge strain on everybody, um, because everybody is shifting to new roles, we're shifting to new technology, we're shifting to entirely new ways of doing things.
So it's like you're taking all of your executive function bandwidth that you would use to incrementally try to shift your behavior, having to do it all at once. So strategies are really crucial right now.
Then I can understand the steps we'll take to get there. So only when students can understand the end product and understand how they're supposed to get there, are they truly doing executive function work.
Um, so this means setting goals, not only long-term, like what do you want to do with your life, but also short-term. Here's what we're going to do today, or here's why this is most important. Um, students can really struggle with this one. Uh, if I ask my students when I'm doing some EF coaching, I ask my students, what is your goal? And you'll get things that are very pie in the sky. I want to be famous. I want to be a rock star. I want to be a YouTube sensation. Um, or things like very inappropriately academic goals. I want to get straight A's in all my classes. I want to get everything.
Also, along with as much schoolwork as kids can do from home, they're getting a lot of enrichment work. And it can be hard for kids to realize, like,
Why, uh, this enrichment work matters right now without the grades, without the structure. And so folding that all in together so that you can really envision.
I'm exploding desktops of your laboratory, your computer, your laptop, where all your files are saved, right? It's very easy for organizational systems to get overwhelmed and get totally chaotic.
We talk about organizing, um, time. So being able to prioritize and estimate what you need to do and create an organized schedule and shift appropriately. We also talk about organizing ideas and information. Think about note taking, thinking about, um, outlining a paper or something like that.
So in organization, we're teaching students how to create systems of categories that they can go back to and utilize to accomplish a task, as well as why those systems matter. This is one I love working on because a lot of students really don't understand what organization is. I think it's a dirty word.
So, um, if you've had to organize essentially just your backpack, now you're, you're organizing your computer, which is now keeping all of your backpack and all of your assignments and everything and.
figuring out how to organize digitally and then in the home, how to organize your workspace. Cause now everybody is at home. Everybody's working from home and some of the systems that we have accord don't always work.
Moving ahead, we have that working memory. And this one, I always like to relate to, like, your brain's dial-up internet. And someday I'll have to stop using that example because young, young people may not remember that. Um, but, you know, it's, it's basically your brain's bandwidth. It's how much can you fit on that whiteboard of your mind? How much short-term memory? How much long-term memory as you juggle the different pieces of information?
Whether, you know, numerical or language or visual to accomplish the task in front of you.
So the classic example of this is mental math. Um, you know, memorizing strings of digits and things like that or something psychologists use to tease out working memory. But also, I think in our students' lives, um, directions is a really a big one. Um, we all know if you give the kid, you know, five steps directions, you're gonna have to repeat yourself a few times. Um,
So directions can be a very, uh, a common strain, thinking about taking a test and being able to hold the directions in your mind as you do the problem, as you do this and that. I also think about, um, working in environments with lots of distractions, which might impose on your working memory as well. Like when you had a computer and you have 90 tabs open.
Um, that can really freeze and freeze up your brain's working memory resources. Um, and that's once again, remote learning has a huge impact on how students allocate their working memory.
Yeah. So directions are always challenged, but now they are even more of a challenge. So we really want to make sure that, uh, we're figuring out ways to repeat directions as many times as possible. And, but now it's harder to get reinforcement.
And the final cog we're going to talk about in that EF paradigm is self-monitoring and self-checking. And we like to put self-monitoring and self-checking together, even though they're a little different. So self-monitoring, we consider self-monitoring
Like, what hat am I wearing right now? Am I on task? Am I doing the things?
that are expected of me. So right now I'm in presenter mode. So I'm being loud. I'm using my hands a lot. But if I was just with a friend.
self-checking in the digital age is a little bit easier because you have, um, a lot of the tools. You have your spell checks. You have your, uh, you have Google. You have, uh, your calculators to be able to check things, but, um, want to make sure that kids are still
I mean, just to show the slide of self-checking and sorry, I get a little animation happy, but self-checking, if self-monitoring is wearing a hat, self-checking is putting on a new pair of glasses.
And, um, I think what Elizabeth said about this, the teacher often really scaffold self-checking, like students are going to really struggle to self-check if we don't give them a rubric and sources, you know, sites they can go to for grammar and a place they can do their MLA citation. So without that, um, scaffolding from us, they may not know how to really put on a pair of glasses to see in a new way.
Um, but I think there is a lot of work that can be done and there's a lot of great technological resources like Elizabeth mentioned.
Why this will help them accomplish a task and a goal that they understand. So if you are not engaging students in how to develop a deeper sense of who they are as students,
And I think we see this a lot when students leave, you know, elementary to middle and elementary school. We do a lot of EF work with our kids, but they may not be building that self understanding to do it themselves as they move into the higher grades. So.
You know, we talked, remember those things that you voted on, like walking down the hallway, mini golf, you know, we've, we've gone through these five different areas of executive function. We've seen how crucial they are to every aspect of school.
And so we can see that these are really at the heart. Remember the key, the key to successful learning. That's the name of this webinar. So we know executive function is really critical. Um.
And he was in his own IEP meeting and he said the school psychologist said, I have no executive function. Now think back about those things, organizing, prioritizing.
This student is an 11th grader, getting ready to think about college. Um, also, by the way, I saw this kid's neuropsych evaluation. Verbal IQ is like off the charts, like 121 or something like that. Super, super smart kid. Also, he was from England, so he had an English accent, so he sounded even smarter. Uh, you know, because that's a very intelligent sounding accent.
Okay. Test preparation. And this is true for all of us. As the demands on us go up, all of our executive function comes under fire. You know it, you know, when things are really hard, all of your systems go out the window. So part of it is we are asking more from kids than ever before. And very true in remote learning, distance learning. And then don't forget about technology.
Right, so good. Um, technology really can interfere with the way executive function develops. Students build their executive function when they understand the end goal and they can sequence the steps they need to get there. And I always like to
take those notes and develop a resources page and then take those notes, make an outline, write it up, et cetera. How do students now research humpback whales? You know, Siri, tell me about humpback whales, right? They don't even have to move. They could just lay there like a slug.
And then there's also the distraction of technology. It's hard to boost your EF when you cannot stay on task and sequence. And your phone is always at your side and telling what your friends are up to, giving you recipes for snacks that you're never going to make.
Now, executive function is crucial. Technology is crucial. So I'm not saying technology is the devil.
So this is Dr. Meltzer's paradigm of an EF challenge. This idea of a clogged funnel.
And the executive function is not being engaged and they're not able to keep up with the work. Okay. So.
How can we understand why the funnel is being clogged so that we can help people develop the strategies they need to be successful?
So some of you may be more familiar with this than others. So this is the zone of proximal development. This is that idea that all the skills and strategies we need are go through a developmental progression. There's a certain time in our lives where we can't do them.
thinking about tying your shoes is a great example. Um, little kids cannot tie their own shoes. Little babies can't do it. Their hands don't have the motor control. They don't understand why they need to. Um, you know, they're just not developmentally able. So we tie their shoes for them.
And then when they're like three or five or six, I'm not really sure what age we say, okay, you can tie your shoes. I'm going to teach you. And we scaffold it. We give them the coffee can with laces in it. We teach them songs about bunny ears and a rhyme, and we do it together.
And then they do it together enough and then they can do it independently. And that's how skills are learned developmentally. And the executive function is no different.
A six year old be able to do with executive function. What should a nine year old be able to do executive function? What is a reasonable expectation? And I always say, I put it back on them and I say, that is depends on the school. It depends on the parents. It depends on what they're being asked to do. So we're going to take a second and we're going to, we're going to kind of read the room and see what you think students should be able to do with executive function.
Alright, so click the link that is speaking to you. And I want you to just think about. What can my kids do? So identify the main idea of a text. Is that something that I would expect? Yeah, my kids can do that.
Right. Or, you know, follow multi-step directions. Can't do yet. I do that for them with support if I teach them or independently. Right. So just go ahead and go ahead and vote. And I'm going to give you 10 more seconds as I sip some coffee. I have a lot of beverages here. You guys can.
I'm going to take this moment to say that, again, if anybody is having, um,
Oh, somebody's saying that the middle school link actually goes to the high school one. Let me re-enter the middle school link just in case. Okay.
Alright, let's give those middle school people a chance to do that.
So elementary is saying most of them can't do that yet. You're asking a six year old to use a planner. No way. 36% are saying can't do and very few people are saying independently. Okay.
Yes. Yeah. If I wasn't afraid of technology, I would have had, you know, K to two, three to five, but I'm afraid of that. So I did not.
research topic online with support, organized materials, mostly with support. Um, let's look at that last one. Um, play a math game.
Um, a lot of us are saying they can do it independently and then with support, right? So we can see that as kids are getting older, they are becoming better at these executive function tasks as long as we're supporting them. And now let's take a look at high school.
So in high school, we would expect that students are going to be on top of things. Yes, they can do that and identify independently. Follow multi-step directions, more independent, more independent on planners and with support. Research a topic, you know, with support.
They're going to be stronger at a lot of different things. Let me just take a look at one thing and break it down though. Let's look at that first one. Identify main idea.
So in elementary school, we're saying, yeah, they can do it mostly with support.
So people have been, um, giving some great suggestions for this, but I want to propose one, I want to ask one very specific question, because I did this at a high, uh, um,
I did this once at a school where I had elementary middle and high school all in the same room.
As the students got older, what happened? Why weren't they getting developmentally better?
Does anyone have any guesses on that before we go back to the PowerPoint? I can see it.
You're in biology. I need you to read this journal article about penguins, but it doesn't even call them penguins. It calls them by their Latin name, Pinguinicus maliconicus, you know, and the font is super tiny and there's no more pictures and they have to do it by themselves and they don't like their teacher they've decided.
Yes, and also, I just want to mention, uh, people asking, uh,
Again, this video will be available for everybody. So if that going through those pie charts was a little fast for you, don't worry. You can go back and you can look at them more, uh, at your leisure later.
Yeah, sorry. I'm a little, I'm a little speedy. Sorry about that. Um, okay.
They are almost guaranteed going to struggle with executive function. ADHD and EF problems are almost one to one with and without support. That's going to be a huge issue. Same thing for kids who've been exposed to a lot of trauma.
This is a picture of me as a baby. This is a picture of me now. As you get older, you get, you know, stronger and more capable. Um, and I always like to pause for a second. There's actually two ages where these big developmental leaps in executive function take place. So someone type into the chat, what are those two ages where there is these big leaps in your executive function abilities?
So, toddlerhood, the entry from toddlerhood into childhood. So, two, three-ish into five, six-ish. And then also puberty into adulthood. So, 11, 13-ish to 25, 27-ish depends, especially boys, especially boys with ADHD are a little behind, um, on that one.
As you go from toddler, toddlerhood, you know, into toddlerhood to childhood in the context, you know, little infants, they're so cute, but they just kind of wiggle around like really cute potatoes. Um, they can't, you know, go off like toddlerhood. Now they can kind of explore the world on their own. They can play make believe games and make up their own rules.
They can start to inhabit these social rules. I'm, you know, I'm a boy who does this. I'm a girl who does that. I like these toys and I don't like that. Um, if they spill something, we ask them to clean it up. If they hurt someone, we ask them to understand the other person's perspective and apologize. The context has created
can make money. You can begin to envision a future on adult identity. So.
potatoes. Yeah, infants are kind of like potatoes to me. I never had an infant, but they're cute, but they're kind of like potatoes. Um, but now,
And this is a way that we can support kids in the development of EF, right? For toddlers, we would never expect them to know how to clean up a mess if we didn't give them a strategy to match it.
So as we think about our students, we got to think about how to match our expectations with strategies. So that's own approximate development. You can also think as a graph.
Um, so see that green dot? If we're asking someone to do something, their competence is above the level of challenge. They can do that independently.
So if you have given your kids strategies for identifying main idea of attacks, and they've done it many, many times, we can trust that they can do that independently. If you're asking someone to do something that is within the zone of proximal development,
This is flow. We were trying to teach things that match their abilities, um, and have them ownership. But I also want you to be aware of that red spot. You know, I hate saying this, but it's worth saying. So when, what is that age where kids say, I hate school? I don't like school anymore. For a lot of our kids, it's middle school.
Adolescence is a big area of risk because a lot of times we pull the support away before kids are ready. We need to match our expectations with strategies and supports, and that's what we're going to talk about for the rest of our time together.
Because if you match the demand with a strategy, then a student feels supported and can be successful. If you make demands that aren't matched by strategies, then you get that clogged funnel. So how do we do that? Explicit instruction.
What happens when students enter middle school and they have those clogged funnels?
You think they're like, Oh, my funnel is clogged because I have no strategies. They say no.
If you give a student strategies, they can say, well, I like this strategy, but I don't like that strategy. Or I'm good at these sorts of math problems, but these are hard to meet.
Um, so, we're gonna talk about how you do that. Um, we wanna teach students this. We wanna give them those strategies. So, um, we have this, we're gonna teach kids that EF is not about the stuff you're bad at. It's about getting things done and owning who you are as a student. So.
Um, we're gonna play a quick game and then we're gonna do two games and then we're gonna go. I can see that we're probably gonna go five minutes over. Um, I hope that you guys can stay with us for an extra five minutes, but if you can't, don't worry. We'll have that video.
Um, Elizabeth, can you put in that link? And I want, I'm going to test you all and I'm going to find out what is your favorite area of executive function.
As you go through your, um, the EF, the adult EF wheel, I want you to think about, are you picking more A's or B's or C's?
And once again, this is not a psychometrically valid thing. If there's any psychologists in the audience, you know, give me a break. I'm just asking some simple questions here.
And once you're done voting, I want you to type in the chat. Do you have more A's or B's or C's? I'll go first. I have more A's.
And this is actually a activity we do with students that's really fun, really successful. Uh, they really like it. So, um, it's, it's something that it's fun to actually do with you guys as well. So just know that that's, uh, why it's framed this way and think about how you might use it with your students.
Now notice that the stuff on this and this questions, they're all executive function challenges from day to day life going.
grocery shopping, packing, getting dressed in the morning. All of that is executive function and none of it is academic. Okay. I'm not going to ask you about what you're bad at. I'm going to talk about your day to day life.
Um, you know, getting dressed in the morning. I love this one. You know, make sure you don't, uh, getting dressed. If you can see this one, where is it? Um, everyone says, you know, make sure you don't wear the same thing twice.
It's so funny to me because it's like our kids really gonna notice, but some kids do. They'll be like, Oh, you wore that blouse already this week. And that could happen.
But let me get back and let me tell you what that means. What did I, what did I just discover about you, um, doing this? So what I discovered. So A, options were organizing options. B, options were remembering options.
And C options were self-checking options. So if you picked more A, that means that your favorite area of executive function is organized.
B for remembering and C for self-checking. And I love doing this with students because they'll say things like, Oh, no, I hate organizing. I'm like, no, no, no. What that means is when the going gets rough, your brain likes to say, Hmm.
How can I create some categories and make a plan to get through this? For B, the going gets rough.
How can I remember what I did last time and use that information to help me and foresee when the going gets rough?
How can I just break this down and check, check, check my way through it?
So once again, this is not psychometrically valid. You'll notice we only did three of the EF areas instead of all five. But what this does is it changes the script of executive function. It's not about the stuff you're bad at. It's about how you navigate the challenges that you face every day.
And how you're going to come into your adult superpowers and be a strategic, fancy professional adult someday.
So here are some for the elementary ones. After we do this, we ask them to. Oh, so usually we had time.
We have the A's give us their A strategies, the B's give us their remembering strategies, the C's self-checking, and we create a list of strategies we're all already using. So as a class, I've got a whole strategy wall of strategies they already use.
coming from areas of strength. The kids are telling me the apps they use to go to the movies or the way they, like, assemble their outfits and things like that. And that's a way that we talk about executive function as strengths.
So then for the elementary kids, we asked them to draw a picture of what executive function looks like. And this kid said, this is what executive function feels like. There's some things in your brain.
about the boat blueprint, and I, and I had a confused look on my face because we didn't talk about boots, uh, boats.
Here's a great one. This is a quote from an 11th grade student in an academic resource room in a public high school. An executive function strategy is a way to get work done, to cut it up so it doesn't seem daunting anymore.
Focus on the main idea. That's your goal. Then the supporting details, the steps you take to get there. It makes the work more simple and it's way better than just jumping right in without a plan and messing up a lot.
And this is why it's so important to teach executive function in a way that's strength based and about problem solving. Because this is a life mentality that this kid can take with him as he graduates and moves out into college and the working world. Um, and I love this one, by the way. This is another nine year old. What's your favorite area executive function? Self-checking. But don't you want a nine year old to tell you that? I love self-checking.
And the reason she said that is her parents are divorced and she goes from one home to the other. And she said, I never forget anything, but my sister always does. But I check my bag before I go.
she has, do I have everything? That's a strategy that she developed that's working for her and she's proud of it. And look at the far side, this one.
That's remembering. And look at the other side. That's her drawing of organization. No, uh, go clean up, go clean up, uh. Organization is a dirty word to so many kids.
We've talked about why executive function matters. We talked about how you need to do it in a way that promotes.
that promotes a positive self concept way that's engaging and promotes motivation. And I've used that word strategy a lot. So before we go any further, we need to define what is an executive function strategy.
Because there's a lot of things out there, highlighting flashcards, whisper reading. There's so many things, planners. There's so many things that are built as executive function strategies, but they may not actually be strategic.
No, they highlight everything. You can't even look at the page. It's so bright, which exactly the opposite. Highlighting is supposed to make the page easier to look at, not harder, right? Or flashcards. I had this one kid in college, and you know,
Um, go ahead and find all the things on that picture. So, you know, you can zoom in or whatever. I'm gonna give you like 30 seconds, not enough time.
Ooh, someone found them all. Awesome. Oh, a couple people. Nice. Some people are feeling totally overwhelmed. Yep. Yep. Sorry. I put you on the spot, on the spot. So before we go any further, let's just make sure we can find them all. And then we will break this down. So people can see, can you see my mouse, Elizabeth? Are you seeing it?
Okay, great. So, a stone statue down here, right? Near the bunny.
Patrick Starr from Spongebob, maybe if you didn't watch Spongebob, but right up here.
Smiley face. Everyone always usually finds a smiley face. Yeah, if you don't know SpongeBob, you can't find Patrick Starr. Sorry about that.
And it's like one of those big, clunky 90s cordless phones, which might be hard. Um, so let's take a second. And I want to think about.
Um, for going a little further, I just have so much great content I want to share with you. So let's debrief this and then we'll post the webinar evaluation. For those of you that can stay on, we will, um, spend a little more time together. So, so here are all these different things. Um, some people said I read the list first.
Oh, so some people say, how long is it? It was supposed to be an hour. It's probably gonna be an hour and 10 minutes. And I do apologize.
And for anybody who needs to leave, I just posted all the links to our websites, our socials, our Parents Art Research ILD, our site ILD, where we're doing one-on-one tutoring with students, which might be relevant to your interests.
Yes, and we will, um, we'll put the evaluation link up there as well. That is how you find, um, that's how you find, that's how you sign up for a certificate.
Sign up for free lessons from SmartSignUp for more information on any of our stuff.
So, do apologize, and you'll also get a recording so you can watch the rest of it if you do have to log off. I'm very, very sorry about that. Elizabeth warned me I was doing too many activities and I did not listen to her, so.
People are picking multiples, okay? Um, people are not just saying I did one. Everyone's saying I did. First I scanned the pictures, then I found the items in order and I looked for specific shapes.
Here's someone who said, I read the list, did the easy ones, then look for shapes and colors. Okay. So what that's teaching us.
This reminds me of when I do ACT, SAT coaching, strategies you teach for reading comprehension. First, I
scan the passage, then I go back to the answers. I skip the hard ones and then I go back. First, I scan the passage and I take notes on it. Then I use those words to do the thing. First, I skim the questions and do whatever.
It's not just like jump right in and flail. It's about breaking those steps down. So they, what we use to break down strategies is this IC test.
Okay, so, individualized. It has to match the student's understanding of their strengths and challenges. Systematic.
Is it efficient? Yes, because it uses your time to accomplish the end goal. Homework is not about just busy work.
Um, is it effective? Did it help you get the link, the accomplishment that you want?
Um, so here's one example. Marcus is reading his science textbook and he's taking notes that he can later turn into a study guide by changing section headings into questions. Sorry about that. Um, so is that an IC strategy? Yes.
first, he reads it, then he writes the section heading into a question in one color.
And the answer in a different color. And that's different colors are a great way to push on executive functions, make things systematic, doing things in different colors. I love that. Is it efficient? Yes. And this is one that kids love to complain about. It's not efficient. It takes more time, but it is efficient because Marcus is getting ready for the test.
Well, everyone else is just doing the homework to get it done. Hey, I love pushing on this. Use your time efficiently by using that time to build towards your big end goals and is effective. So kids will push on this one. I don't know if it's effective. And that's a good point. We are going to find out if it's effective by reflecting on it later.
So I'm going to kind of go through these pretty quickly, but like, look at this one. Dana, she has to do algebra. She knows she has trouble with positive and negatives. She highlights in different colors. And yes, that's individualized, systematic, efficient, and effective. One more quick example. Mark, he's got a test tomorrow.
For each one of these, whether it's highlighting, flashcards, timers, note taking.
We are going to wrap up with seven steps that you can use to get started.
Because this is a big thing for executive function. You do not need to do everything all at once. I encourage you not to. I want you to follow these seven steps, and we're going to use those to figure out how you can use executive function in your work.
You should never say this kid is bad at executive function.
I'm gonna help them with executive function. Instead, you need to be concrete and say, I need to help, um,
with organization or goal setting or self checking. You need to pick EF areas of need that are specific and concrete. And that leads me to step two, which is select strategies aligned with real life tasks.
If you ever try to teach executive function only for the sake of executive function, the student isn't going to understand what the point of it is. By connecting it to concrete tasks, you make both of your lives much, much easier.
Um, then pick a strategic time. Um, the best time to teach executive function is when the kid can use it. So if you're going to teach strategies for test taking, do it in the context of a test that's coming up. If you're going to strategies for organizing your homework, do it in a time where the kid can organize their homework for the day.
linking executive function to strategic times throughout the year or the week can make life much, much easier for you and your students. And modify, you know.
I am not going to teach executive function at a college level to student in elementary school.
If you're going to be using a worksheet, make sure that the reading level is appropriate for your kids. If you have kids who are, you know, have been struggling academically, maybe doing group activities instead of things, a lot of writing.
could be beneficial. So we're going to set up students to be successful in their life by modifying before we teach it.
And teach it. Um, this is our pedagogical model that we use. It's pretty standard. They call it guided release. Um, you know, activate, ask kids how they've done things in the past, what they think about that model explicitly, let kids practice it, and then reflect. That reflection, by the way, is super, super important. A lot of people skip that step because of time. But if you don't do that, you're going to be in trouble. And look at that. Reflect. It's my, it's the sixth step.
reflection is really, really crucial. This is where students develop that building of strength and challenge. This is where we say,
You have to do the reflection. I start off my EF coaching sessions with reflection. You can also do a strategy reflection sheet like this as homework. You can do a survey. You can do a group share. There's a lot of different ways to reflect, but I encourage you to reflect on the strategies that you're learning. And then finally, go back to it.
doing executive function one time is not enough. You have to go back to it. Find ways to do additional activities to discussion questions that reference the strategies that you've taught. Apply it to new subjects and tasks. Use the terminology and the vocab.
And finally, model. Show them your own strategies, your own time management strategies, your own organizational strategies. Those are all ways to come back to the executive function strategy and reinforce it as you go.
So I am going to make sure we have about five minutes for questions. Um, but make sure that you fill out this evaluation form. This is where you can request a certificate. You're also eligible to get a free lesson from the SMARTS Middle School High School program or the SMARTS Elementary curriculum.
And then if you want some information on EF services for students, including coaching one on one, as well as coaching in groups, you can check that as well. You can check all the boxes or none of the boxes. That's fine. Um, we'll also follow up with a
a pdf, um, we'll follow up with an email later that has the recording as well as a link to the pdf of the slides and you'll have
Yes. Um, some people have asked about if the video is going to keep preserve the chat.
And I understand that it is, but the links may not be live. So we're going to send out all the links that we sent to all these evaluation forms and, uh, to all of the great Google duck.
Uh, forms that Michael, uh, put together. We'll put those in the email as well. And then also before we get into it again, I'm going to post all of our various.
put together, uh, every, at least every week. And we're doing lots, lots more of blogs about distance learning. Did that go in there? Um.
So, we have a lyrical. So, we have a lot more of that.
On research ILD, we actually have like a four page, you know, what is EF kind of white paper.
We're also trying to create some more free resources. Some of those videos, Elizabeth mentioned, et cetera. So explore our sites, um, and then reach out if you have any more questions on different resources that you can share with your colleagues and teachers and that kind of thing.
I see a great question from Deborah on who is the best person in the school to support executive function. That is a fantastic question. I will tell you that.
The truth is that we should all be responsible for executive function because we're all putting executive function demands on the kids. And that includes not just teachers includes administrators, by the way. Um, special ed teachers.
Often are the best or, or non content teachers, the best to support kids at risk for EF difficulties, like, uh, you know, kids with ADHD, et cetera. I mean, OTs, SLP, that kind of thing. Those are best to help kids who are really at risk. But academic, you know, content teachers need to be matching their academic demands with EF strategies.
Thinking about transition years, thinking about research papers, project-based learning, midterm standardized tests.
Those teachers should be teaching EF strategies so that kids can access those materials. And finally, administrators should be aware of how their scheduling affects kids EF. Like when, when schools went to block
schedules. The EF demands of time management went out, went through the roof.
They're making certain EF demands, and the school should be matching those demands with strategies. So really, there's different ways to promote EF at every level. Yep. Yep. Um.
Okay, so we kept you a little bit over and I do appreciate for those of you who are able to stay. Um, you know, definitely.
Check out those resources Elizabeth mentioned. Um, you know, you got my email. So if you have any follow up questions, don't be a stranger. It will take us, you know, we'll probably be answering those evaluations up until through next week.
Uh, teacher, administrator, researcher, anybody. So, don't be a stranger. We hope to see you at future webinars. We hope to hear from you about, you know, smarts or any of our EF offerings. So, everyone stay safe. Uh, stay healthy. Stay sane.
And, uh, looking forward to connecting with you guys in the future. Thank you so much.
Indeed. And I just want to say you guys were an awesome audience asking fabulous questions. I mean, we're teachers, your teachers. We all know how much it contributes to the experience when everybody is super engaged. And so we just really appreciate that.