Alright! Welcome to Halting Towards Zion, the podcast where we limp like Jacob to the promised land and talk about life, the universe, and everything along the way!
We have many friends with us this evening, or this afternoon or morning, whenever you're listening, I suppose.
Two of these friends have been with us before, Brian and Joseph, and our new friend is married to Joseph and is a former classmate of mine. Hello. Uh, Talitha, would you like to introduce yourself?
So last week, we talked about the Trinity and we reviewed Arianism and the Council of Nicaea and just briefly touched on the dual procession of the Holy Spirit. And we realized we needed a lot more time to talk about these things.
So, Arianism is a heresy that subordinates Christ to the Father in essence of saying, he's not God. He's something like God, but he's not God. That makes him less. Um, and it turns out there are a lot of.
different heresies that do the same thing in essence that we, we call subordinationism. So.
What is the essential problem with subordinationism?
Well, we are talking about the essence of God. Who and what is God in himself? And one of the first problems the church had to face was those who said,
Well, first of all, Aries actually didn't say Jesus is like God. He said the son is not at all.
Like the father. The son is so not like the father. He is an absolute creature and the distance there is infinite.
But as a councilman, I see a lot of people rejected Arius out of hand, but still clung to the idea.
of a similar essence. He was, whatever the Father is, whatever that God stuff is, Jesus was at the same sort of stop. He was like the Father in essence.
But a different, apparently a different being, not of the same essence of a father, not.
God, really, really like God. It's like God as you can imagine, but simply not God. And the Council of Nicea, through
Lots of wrestling's back and forth, and lots of arguing, and lots of unappealing prescriptures came up with the final pronouncement that Jesus is of one essence with the Father, Homo Ossian.
Saw it in the Bible. I mean, you have to be very careful. The church was not legislating. The church was not making things up. The Council of Nicaea did not invent a new religion. And you can find people who will tell you it did all of those things.
The church was recognizing what the church, in fact, had always taught. Bishops at NYC were saying, this is the gospel. This is what we've always said. This is what the Bible says. This is the truth.
And in the face of all error, we are going to not only say it in biblical language, we're going to say it in other language to.
Confront those who try to get around the plain language of scripture by reinterpreting it. And so we have Nicaea. Generation later, Constantinople came along.
Fix some of the loose pieces and tied up some loose ends and put a bow on it. And from there we have.
What we now know is the Nicene Creed, which has been confessed by the church ever since, by all wide branches of the church at least. And.
We say with great confidence, confidence rooted in scripture, Jesus is God.
There's only one God. The Father is God, the Son is God, the Holy Spirit is God, but there's only one God, and yet the Father's not the Son, the Son's not the Spirit, the Spirit's not the Father.
And we stand back and say, and we don't completely understand how that is.
But we understand the words of scripture clearly enough to say that much and to insist that it's true. So that's sort of where we left off. Where, how shall we proceed from there?
Well, let's talk about ESS briefly. Um, ESS or Eternal Subordination of the Sun is a theory that, uh, gained a little bit of popularity in recent years, at least on the internet.
The intentions were good. I think as people were trying to defend a view of marriage where husband and wife have complimentary rather than identical roles.
And from there, they said, oh, you know, yeah, uh, husband and wife, they're equal in value as human beings. Just like.
God and Jesus are essentially the same in essence, but the son is eternally subordinate to the father. Like that's his, his role. That's what's proper to him in his nature, which actually makes his nature different than the nature of the fathers.
And I think you just brought up the issue and solved it all at once. And I'm not really sure what more we say to that.
And by the nature of that confession, by the nature of that truth.
There's no room for subordination, making distinctions, surely.
The father's the father, the son's the son. The son's eternally begotten of the father.
But with regard to the divine essence to any particular attribute that we perceive as human beings.
to the, neither one takes orders from the other because he has to. Now, can they like, part of the problem here is the word equals. Equals is a mathematical term.
But no apple is actually the equivalent of any other apple and on whether it, whereas they may substitute great at making apple pies. In reality, they are two very different things.
So the whole issue of equal, unless you're going to say, yes, they're equally God, because we're talking about the same God. It's the God who made the world that God.
The son is that God. The father is that God. Then you could say equal. Equal in majesty. Equal in glory. Equal in power. But, anyway, that was a tangent.
Well, maybe that we can clarify between, uh, this idea of eternal subordination and economic subordination, because we do use that term to describe Jesus' work.
Oh, and that's right. Thank you. Because that's actually where it's going. Very good. So, given who they are, they can, as persons, say to one another, let's do this.
And they can have an agreement between themselves. And as we look at scripture, we do see evidence that from eternity the father takes a lead into creating and planning
and appointing and assigning the son and the son.
Not being forced, not being a lesser person in this arrangement nonetheless agrees out of the love he has for his father and the desire to glorify his father. He takes up this assignment.
And the Holy Spirit agrees to work with both of these to glorify the Son, to glorify the Father, to glorify the Son by sending him.
Manifest love for the other. That the scripture teaches, and we can point out plenty of.
Passage is where we can see this, what you rightly call economic subordination. That is with regard to the management of, of creation and the management of redemption. They do take up roles that are in some measure appropriate to their names, but.
We can't read from that back into the essence of God and somehow start carving up God and say that some of God is lesser than other parts of God. Oh, partialism. There we go again.
And so there, we can't have some part of God less than some other part of God.
which, if we do that, then we tear up the godhead and we're left with polytheism or something.
And that's, uh, that's something similar when, when it comes to the idea of subordination. It, it implies two of something. There, there is something that is different and has to be
Beneath the other, and if God the son in eternity has a different will, he wants something else than what God the father wants, and he has to subordinate his will to the father's will, then he's no longer God.
that makes the father's will more perfect than you have imperfection.
Uh, it's something that falls out of what you just said. And I think that we.
who dabble in theology don't emphasize enough. We say that there is one divine essence. And in this essence, the attributes in the essence are equivalent. That is, there's not.
The analogy I've been using lately. Imagine Mr. Potato Head.
Mr. Manhattan represents the being or essence of God. And then to this, we plug in some.
You know, lips of omniscience and some eyes of omnipresence and some ears of love and some hat of kindness. And, you know, we attach all of these attributes to some basic underlying essence. This is not what the Bible teaches.
share that into pieces. Now, what this means practically with regards to the Trinity is
There are not three wills in God. There are not three sets of emotions. There are not three minds. There is the divine essence, which is, is, and includes mind, will, emotions, and we could
We had higher degrees in theology. Maybe we could define that a little better, but I'm not sure.
And each of these persons shares all of that essence so that it's not, it's not what the Jehovah's Witness accuses us of. We don't have a three-headed God.
We don't have a three-minded God or a three-willed God who shares some kind of essence at some lower level.
The essence of God is mind, is love, is will, is sovereignty, is joy.
Uh, and it's at this point particularly where we stand back and say, I don't know how that works.
you were talking about, we don't have a three-headed god that shares some deeper essence. A book I highly recommend to anybody who is listening to this and to anybody in this.
Call, who would like to read it, is All That Is In God, by James Dolezal.
He's a reformed Baptist pastor. I forget where he teaches, but he wrote his dissertation on divine simplicity.
And it is phenomenally well written. And he, he took the dissertation and wrote it into a popular level book that someone like me can read.
But he talked about a lot about what the importance of simplicity is, because the basic analogy that he used was if there are parts within God and there's something that is deeper than them, that is what we call godlikeness.
Then everything else on the outside of it is periphery. It is accidental. It's not part of his essence. So you basically have godness and then on the outside, something that isn't God.
Not composed of parts, essence. Yes. For God the Father and God the Son and God the Spirit who are distinct but not separate. I'll insert the creed here.
And try to understand them as they were intended. We don't try to impose our own.
Misunderstandings on them, at least we don't think we are.
is consistent with what the Church, in particular the Reform Church, has taught.
So we're not making this up as we go. We're not a bunch of heretics. We're not imagineers when it comes to theology. We are trying very much to be faithful to the creeds of the church.
And thank you, Brian, for bringing in the word simplicity, which is exactly what word needed to come at this point. And we're talking about the simplicity of the divine essence. Father, Son, and Spirit are not three parts. Each is fully and completely God who possesses.
The divine essence in its totality. Otherwise, you get exactly what you described. You're quite right.
There was a professor moving on to the Holy Spirit who we haven't talked much about so far this episode. Uh, there was a professor at my college who infamously once remarked that the filioque clause was not really that big of a deal. What do we think about that?
CW Powell Jr. gave me a Christmas present. I was a, I was a teenager. It was called Armageddon in prime time. The author was George Bailey, who was a news correspondent and also
Did some intelligence work, uh, behind the inner curtain. I think it was in Eastboro, or, East or West Berlin, I forget.
And as he wrote this book, his prediction was that in 1984 is the Cold War is over. The Soviets have lost. They know they've lost. It's just a matter of time now. And the reason it had to do with our technology.
And they're very poor technology. In a word, in America, our problem is keeping hackers out. In the Soviet Union, their problem is keeping hackers in.
Because they didn't want a free flow of information into the country. They didn't want to see the next generation. They didn't want the next generation to see what the free world looked like. Because, of course, they've been lying to their people. And they were finding it more and more difficult to do that.
And furthermore, our generation of hackers were going up to be next decades. Computer engineers.
Technological edge that was manifest first in the moon landing and then later in SDI. And so George Bailey is saying.
This is inevitable, this, this, this, this word. So, but, to your point.
I do not know if the man is a Christian. He never says so. Doesn't say he's not. But in passing, he says the difference between the Soviet Union and the United States can be traced back to an obscure doctrine.
It's this thing called, and he's talking to people who have no idea what he's talking about. I'm not sure how well he understood it.
which emphasizes that the spirit and the sun both have their origin.
What's the spirit? And he doesn't say it like this. He has a very simplistic kind of approach to it.
But what we were left with are the models for two possible ways of looking at society. We have the top down.
So the union approach where we have an authority at top and all authority flows down in separate unrelated channels and only the guy at the top really knows what's going on. Or we have the Western Republican.
A fellowship and community of authority, standing side by side, rather than being posed wholly from the top. Now that was his take, and we can, we can flesh some of that out, but he brought it down to the Reformation.
The Protestant minister, the preacher in a business suit who relates to people who do business. On the other hand, you get Greek orthodoxy and you get people in robes swinging incense through the air and bowing down before pictures.
The Eastern Greek Russian view of the spirit is the spirit.
And that creates two streams of revelation. The sun is the logos, the word, the spirit is.
Some kind of other power through which God reveals himself. And so word and worship become separate things.
And there are two different ways of enjoying God by studying theology or by simply experiencing the spirit without the mediating word. Whereas in the West, the two go hand in hand.
worship, love, emotion go hand in hand with divine revelation in Jesus and in scripture. And there's no conflict.
And so the Soviets ended up inheriting a basic Russian mindset of top-down line of authority who are in the background. The Christian community was still essentially mystic.
except where Western missionaries have made inroads and even there.
There's a good deal of Pentecostalism, which carried with its semisticism.
Uh, whereas the West, despite all of its secularization, still maintained the idea of a balance of authorities.
And, uh, the possibility of, uh, a community between equals. So.
Does it make a difference? Well, here's one, one secular guy who understood the 20th century very well and said, yeah, you can write the history of the 20th century in terms of the stock. Now, he may have overstated it, but at least he saw that there's something going on here that.
Even the most seemingly obscure doctrines. Given a thousand years.
can have profound effects on how a society.
Yeah. When your idea of the basic fundamental governance of the entire universe.
Is different. Are we really surprised that society ends up looking different? There's, there's a connection here. It sounds like a stretch at first, but when you think about it, I think the, the connection is really deep and essential.
In, in, in answer to your professor, even, even if I didn't know any of what I know about the Philippine cause and its history, I would be a little surprised at anyone who said,
Don't understand that that's what the filioquake clause is about. It's like, you can't look at something and, and see like, you've got two streams of Christendom and one of them is in the East and the other one's in the West. And both of them are pretty close as far as numbers are concerned and think, yeah.
Well, the idea was that there was some sort of political difference that was really at the heart of it, and the filio quay was just an excuse, but I don't see how that holds up under scrutiny either, to be honest.
I mean, if you look at the Western Roman Empire at the time, it was, uh,
But the West continued to struggle between church and state.
And eventually, church, state, and academy, as the universities came along, there was, there was, it was never settled. There was never, well, obviously, the emperor's in charge and everyone needs to listen in.
Nor was it ever solved for more than a very brief season that, hey, the papacy's in charge. And, um, you know, he's God walking on earth and all that.
We're all God's people. Isn't the church is the body of believers? Doesn't that have some kind of balance? And even when it got secularized and that happened early in the middle ages, as well as later on in the Renaissance and Enlightenment.
There was still this recognition that nobody here has all the power. Now because we're sinners, we like to be tyrants.
But the West, in establishing the Sounder Doctor of the Trinity, was able to struggle with it.
even if it was a struggle. Whereas in the east, the church something gave in and said, yes, emperor, what shall we do?
There was, there was really no contest to the East. It was a simple subordination of church to state. The state, the emperor being the direct representative of God and.
the church being one hand of what was going on here, but not, not all that was, not all
Well, and it's something that marks, uh, Western society too, that to my knowledge, you don't see anywhere else of, we have a tendency to question whoever's at the top, and we've had that for about a thousand years.
Yeah, you know, you, you go to the East, you've got the, the, you know, the Dalai Lama or the emperor, or you always have somebody at the top that is the unquestioned authority. Whereas in the West and especially here in the United States, you have.
that very much, okay, yeah, the person at the top says do this. And we go, okay, well, why? What has he done for me lately? Just see what exactly has he done to deserve this level of authority?
has he done anything wrong? That means that he does not deserve that authority. And is there anybody better for the job? Which as far as I can tell from my admittedly limited study of human history, that's pretty exclusive to the West.
And also, you get the question of, uh, of questioning the morality and just justice of that leader's, uh, actual command, which is why.
Don't quote me on this, I'm not a military lawyer. But, you know, court marshals are designed to determine whether you disobeying your commanding officer's order was morally right. Yes.
Well, yeah, cause the, cause the, the oath is, uh, threats both within and without. Yeah, there, there is, there are certain times where disobeying the guy above you is considered the right thing to do. It's just, they have to, uh, they have to check it out, cause,
Weirdly, you're under authority too, as much as your superior officer is.
The Nuremberg trials established the principle that we were just following orders is not a sufficient defense.
Well, I have a Holocaust and everything else, and rightly so. Now, the West had to work through this, and we're by no means assisting if the West is perfect in this that has an ideal track record. And some of this, some of the things you're developing, you're discussing have developed almost within my lifetime. When FDR was our president, he walked on water. Nobody questioned him. That whole generation.
My parents lived through that generation. You, you, you could not go to someone from that time and say, here's all the things FDR did that were wrong and unconstitutional and thought stupid.
took us out of, he took, he won the war, he brought us out of the depression, he gave us jobs, he's.
And it was kind of frightening. It took things like the Kennedy assassination, the Watergate.
It has been a hard road to come to terms with that.
Because of that stuff is only just starting to come out about them too. The shady stuff that both FDR and JFK did in the background that nobody, that they could do because nobody really questioned them on it.
And that nobody would get away with today because we're watching them now.
Do you guys notice any correlation between, uh, romanticism and this sort of individualist distrust of authority? Cause I, I think of Robbie Burns, of course, a man's a man for all that. You know, we don't need no government.
general romantic movement, you have the individual emphasized above the collective.
Especially of the, you know, the, it's largely centered on whatever you're, whether it's the poet or the protagonist or what have you. It's so centered on them that it's, you know, you have the,
Usually man versus society a lot of times in the society is the bad thing and you have the pure individual moving away from all that.
And yet romanticism would call us to perfect unity with a perfect call.
And we can think of, uh, Henry David Thoreau, his different drummer, his civil disobedience.
And so, he's, he is, he is the lone individual opposing the standard society. And yet his best friend is Emerson, who's talking about yielding yourself to the perfect hole.
Identifying Jehovah with, uh, Brahma and all of that. Emerson's doctrine of the over-soul, all parts of something greater.
So the individual, it's all about the individual as long as he finds his meaning in the total whole of everything. But the total whole of everything is never what's going on at the moment. It's never societies that currently exist. Current society stinks, is rotten, needs to be brought down.
And so, you know, we follow the lone individual on his, uh, his own imaginative track as he follows his heart, whether, as you say, it be the.
The poet, the artist, the protagonist of the novel, Child Harold. How did we get here? What was, what was the?
Uh, so, back in ancient times when I was your student, Greg.
Yes, you gave us the test on proving the doctrine of the trinity from scripture. And you told us you may use your Bible for this and anything that is written in your Bible.
So I proceeded to copy the entire chapter from our syllabus with all the proof texts into the back of my Bible. And it's the best thing I've ever done. I'm going to do this to every Bible I ever use from now on.
People like you would actually do that so that when the Jehovah's Witnesses came to the door, you, you, you, people like you would grab your Bibles, have everything right there and would be able to use it.
I, I know I've told this story lately, but I don't remember if I told it back in your, your time. Uh, it was when I taught in, in Anderson. Probably my, my, my first or second, probably my first year.
I was Saturday morning. I was doing nothing in particular. I get a phone call and this kind of fluffy little blonde says.
Here are some verses. Write them down real fast. Okay. Just say this and say this and ask them this and ask them that. There you go. Lord bless you. Okay. Thanks. Thanks. I don't remember if I ever found out how that went, but.
I think that pretty much stuck in my mind as when people knock on the door and say,
Tell us about this Trinity thing. We better have our Bibles near at hand. But if you don't know where things are in the Bible, then that's a problem.
And so when I gave it, and I still do that, I did it not too long ago.
Anything that you want to permanently attach to your Bible, you can use on the test.
It can't just be stuck between the pages. You have to make it part of the Bible. Okay, I guess we're creating a study Bible here.
Anyway. And, uh, so has, has this been useful for you then?
It has mostly in photocopying and giving to other people who wanted the list.
Okay. That'd be nice. So people would know what in the world we're talking about.
Could you, I'm not going to ask you to read the references, let alone all of the verses, but can you remind me of what the broad outline of the thing is?
There is only one God. That's the first point. Like, we know that from the entire Old Testament, right? And then comes this three-persons idea. Under that heading, we have.
The baptism to be in the name of the three persons, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, that's pretty.
Descriptive. Uh, you have it in Revelation. Worship is ascribed to Jesus.
We know that worship is proper to God only. So that's an indication also.
Um, and then you have each of the three persons being truly and fully God. Um, pretty much nobody's ever disputed that God the father is God. Cause that sounds pretty self-defeating.
Uh, but then you have all the times where Jesus does divine works. He's creating all things, upholding all things.
Having divine authority to forgive sins, that sort of thing. Divine attributes.
Um, and then you have the Holy Spirit. First of all, with the Holy Spirit, you have to prove that he's a person, not just the force.
Yeah, it seems that that's been more, his personality or personhood has been more of an issue because
Once you admit he's a person, the deity follows pretty quickly. And so heretics have usually taken their, their stand on, well, no, he's, he, it's just another name for the power of God and the sovereignty of God or God's influence or some extension from God.
And any language that might suggest otherwise is purely metaphorical.
And yeah, as we read scripture, there's nothing particularly metaphorical about simple things like don't grieve the spirit. The spirit assigns spiritual gifts as he will. The spirit speaks.
To the apostles. The spirit has infinite knowledge because he knows the mind of God. These are, these are all attributes of personhood. However you want to, whatever definition of parameters you want to set of personhood, those things fall within the realm of a person as opposed to some kind of impersonal force, for lack of better words.
And so, yeah, so we go there and we talk about those things and then finally talk about the, as I recall, uh, those divine power, divine attributes.
that he is, on a couple of occasions, actually called God, for instance, when Anas and Sapphira lie to the Apostle Peter. Peter first says, you've lied.
to the Holy Spirit, and then he says, you have a light to men you light to God, equating the two. And then later on in Paul's writings, the temple of God is the temple where the Holy Spirit dwells. It's, it's, it's pretty.
This is simply the church wrestling with the words of scripture and trying to put them in other words.
And so it's an ongoing battle to keep saying, no, not this, but this. No, not that, but this. No, that's not what that means. This is what it means.
The favorite tactic of heretics is still to redefine words.
Everything sounds good. We talked about this last time. Mormons, Joels, Witnesses are getting good at it. Redefine the words, redefine the terms of vocabulary so that you sound orthodox.
And it takes a number of penetrating questions before you finally hit the weak spot and say, oh, wait, no, that's not right.
There are some Lutherans that I used to listen to. They had a show called Table Talk Radio.
They would just play games. But one of the things that they invented was the heresy two-step.
So you start with your feet firmly planted on the word of God, and then you take a step back into abstraction.
The thing we have not talked about and need to, particularly in an age that's confided by Islam, is what it means to have a tri-personal God. Practically what it means.
As we read scripture, we see the father and the son talk to each other.
We are told that they love each other. They love each other for the foundation of the world. There is real personal interaction here.
This, this is really important. We say, we say goddess love.
And you may remember, you all may possibly remember a trick question on one of your tests, uh, in amount to why do we say God is love?
And at least in the multiple choice form, it's because God loves forever, because God loved us forever. And there were a couple other things that weren't right either.
But the correct answer, of course, is because the persons of the Trinity love each other forever. If we say.
God is love because he loved us, then that makes his Godhead dependent upon his foreknowledge of us. His Godhead depends upon the fact that he is bound to know and create us. We enable God to become God.
If we say that God is just love in some abstract sense, it's just some kind of emotion or virtue that percolates around in the essence of God without any fixed goal, person. God just loves in general.
And it becomes possible for Christians to be wonderful, loving people without ever loving anyone. As Linus says to Lucy, I love humanity, it's people I can't stand. And that becomes, that becomes a real thing. If we, if we allow love to be simply
An abstract concept, an abstract version, we're back to the whole simplicity thing. If love is just a piece of God that has no.
No real existence except as abstraction. Then we don't have a loving God. Love isn't eternal. The potential for love may be eternal.
But then that potential itself implies a completion that hasn't happened yet and we're back to, and God needs to complete himself by creating us. Uh, again, in my, my former school.
Pick a poem. I've seen it since. I don't remember the author or what it's called, but it amounts to God creates the universe. And it's all beautiful. Wonderful. But God goes and sits down on a log and looks around and decides that he's lonely. And so he creates man to have someone to talk to. How that poem got in the poetry contest, I don't know.
But a lot of people think that way. God needs to complete himself and thus us.
He made us so he can complete himself. We are the necessary corollary to God's potential, potential for deity, which is to say we make God God. We are part of God.
Necessary correlations to God. So when we don't acknowledge the biblical doctrine of the Trinity, the true personhood of the Father and the son communicating in the Holy Spirit throughout eternity.
We destroy love. We destroy communication. We destroy communion.
We leave them at best in abstractions and far more likely as means whereby as we define these terms on our own grounds because there's no definition in God.
This becomes the way we deify ourselves. We will, we will, you will be loved. You will be embraced. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile. To draw us back.
I know we opened up that topic by naming Islam. There's an excellent section in K. Scott Olifant's
Muslim, and it's actually quite fantastic. And basically one of the arguments that sticks out in my memory is that a, the Islamic conception of Allah is a perfectly non interactive being.
keeps him or allows him or forces him by his own will to keep his work.
Perfectly. And by the letter of the Quran, he has earned a spot in paradise. And Allah is under no compulsion to keep his word.
Well, yeah, cause it's, it's, and it's all just from, it doesn't even claim to be, like, muhamm, uh, Allah can't even really reveal himself. He's so non-interactive that he can't even hold a conversation and reveal his will and his word to people. So you have to have, uh, this, this guy basically guessing.
at what's going on and going. Um, I'm pretty sure that if this did happen, that he'd want you to do this.
And we're back to totalitarianism as well. Back to a single stream of power. Uh, there's, there's no cooperation of any kind. Yeah, exactly.
You know what poem should be in the poetry contest? It's The Lanyard by Billy Collins. Are you familiar with it?
reflection of a young man on the lanyard that he made for his mother at summer camp. How she gave to him life and uncounted square meals and legs to walk on and eyes to see the world. And in return, he made her a lanyard.
The Bible reveals Jesus, the Son, the Word, as the very Word of the Father, the image of the invisible God.
The brightness of his glory, the express image of this person. In other words, God by his nature is a self revealing God. God begets his son.
And he, in his son, he sees himself and he is well pleased. There are multiple times in the gospels where the son, where the father renders that, that verdict concerning the son.
This is my beloved son of our, my beloved son, in thee I am well pleased, hear him.
This over against, I mentioned this earlier broadcast, over against the painting guys. Of course, we all know Loki's betrayal of Odin over and over and over again. But this, that was hardly unusual. Cronus went after Uranus with a scythe.
and castrated him, zoomed silver through a cronus intern.
Tiamat, the chaos monster, and slices her in half and makes heaven and earth out of her. In Egyptian mythology, Isis,
And then comes and convinces him that she's the only one who could possibly heal him. But to do so, she has to know his true name, which in magical religions means the.
that key power word that reveals and captures your identity. And eventually Ross succumbs in.
and reveals his true name to her and she uses it to cripple him and confine him to the sun cherry for the rest of his life or eternity or whatever, while she usurps his power. Every time, every place we look,
But when we come to scripture, the son is the perfect image of a father.
glorifies the father. And in fact, when we look at Jesus priestly, high priestly prayer in John 17, the son asked the father glorify me so that I can glorify you.
with the glory we had together before the world was. And then the Holy Spirit is going to come and glorify me so I can glorify you so you can glorify me.
And each one reaches out in love to actively do something within Earth's history to glorify the other.
Now we go further. We've spoken already of economic, uh, Trinity, economic subordination within the Trinity.
The father elects predestined to people and grants these people to the son to save and gives him the job, the work to do. The son comes and does the work.
So to glorify his father, he lays down his life. He takes it back again. The father exults into his right hand and the Holy Spirit pulls all this together and then becomes the means whereby.
This, uh, the salvation was applied to God's elect and they all work together to accomplish.
A purpose that is an overflowing love. They were perfectly sufficient in themselves. They loved each other completely and didn't need us. God did not need man to love.
Because the father gives up his son. The son is separated from his father. The Holy Spirit withdraws his comfort from.
The son, the twofold cry of Jesus, my God, my God, as he, as he senses his separation from the Father and from the Holy Spirit.
And yet, on the other side, all to the greater glory of the triune of God.
And so here we have a picture of what love is. Love going even to the point of abandoning, of suffering.
to, uh, Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. God so loved the world, he gave us all, maybe God himself.
And this is eternal. This is something in God. It's not some arbitrary thing along the way where God said, well, we compare it to something like, uh,
Let's all wear blue and let's lay down our lives for our friends.
The one was a ceremony that, yes, had meaning, but in time passed away. The other is of the essence of ethics and of salvation.
We have thanks to give to our producer, David, my lawfully wedded husband. Also to our artist, Maggie Smith. She did the cover art that is gracing this podcast. You can find her work at
MaggieSmith.com. Maggie with a Y, not an IE. So shout out to her. Thank you guys for being here.
Send us an email at haltingtowardszion at gmail.com. See you next time.